my mom is this way my stepdad got
murdered my dad beat the [__] out of me
i can't read and write to say my [__]
soul i've lied about it to everybody
i've cheated on all these tests
and then you put a goal in your mind
how are you gonna feel man when you
accomplish this goal coming from that
[__]
coming from the [__] hell you came
from
this might be exactly what i need
the darkness
is exactly what i need it's how you look
at your situation
what am i going to do today to change
what i see in this mirror
[Music]
today's guest is widely considered to be
the toughest man on the planet and one
of the greatest endurance athletes of
all time but if you're tempted to
dismiss him as the product of amazing
genetics great parenting or even
performance-enhancing drugs
think again you know me son get it
19.
yeah if you're not real and wrong with
who the [__] you are
nothing's going to change and that's why
i talk about the warrior mentality and
that's why so many people
are lost
i chose this world to be a warrior and i
would choose it again if i came back to
this world
[Music]
you must be that person on that door get
ready to open it thinking to yourself if
i die
so be it
are you accountable for what you're
doing are you accountable and i mean to
the t
for what you're saying
i am and that's where it started it
started with that total total
accountability of let's not lie today
i'm even shaking right now being on this
show i'm a big time introvert
how you address it is you face it
this is a race that you run completely
alone i said to myself no i'm a dumb
[__]
okay roger that how you get smarter
educate yourself
buy this book
i read it it is extraordinary it is one
of the most amazing
manuals for how to change your life ever
and the very best may not be
i'm number one
the very best is did i leave everything
inside of me
out there
that's the goal in life
to put your life on a billboard on the
busiest road in the busiest highway in
the world and say
this is how [__] up i used to be take
it or leave
one more carry the boats
help me in welcoming the man who once
ran an ultra marathon with pneumonia
the king of no
[Music]
excuses i'm david [__] goggins that's
who i am
we have the ability to go
in such a space
if you're willing to suffer
and i mean suffer your brain and your
body once connected together can do
anything
and this 30 miles was the life-changing
moment
i was out of it i was in the worst pain
in my entire life
i was to me
on the brink of death
and i was able to chunk this 30 damn
miles
into small pieces i was so driven
and i'm not going to say motivated
because motivation is crap motivation
comes and goes
when you're driven whatever's in front
of you will get destroyed
so
i sat in this chair and i was so driven
to succeed in this race and at this time
everybody goes were you thinking about
the guys that died and
i'm not gonna lie to you i wasn't
this became a personal thing
this became me against this race me
against the kids that called me [__]
me against me
it it it just became something that i
took so
so violently personal
and i broke this thing down into small
pieces i said okay i got to get
nutrition i got to be able to stand up
before i can get off this curb and get
off this chair and be able to go 30
miles so i went through all these small
steps and i was able to stand up
and then from staying up
i was literally walking around with my
wife at the time and she goes you're not
going to make the time she goes you're
running you're walking like 30 some
minute miles
i got to my 81
and the second she said that i'm not
gonna make the time
i ran the last 19 miles non-stop
and i can show you right now when we get
done with this matter of fact i'm going
to show you right now
this was years ago
and i had to put compression tape
on my ankle
and i had so this was years ago
i had
literally the size of half dollars
i had to get compression tape
and i taped up my ankles and i taped up
my feet
and that's how i got through that race
was it like a hematoma i mean what do we
know see what happened was like my shins
hurt so bad from having stretch
fractures that the only way i can
continue on was i taped it so i wasn't
doing the flexor motion that that
activates
your your shins
so i taped my ankles and my shins up and
i got that from
because in my third hell week
they won't let me go back through you
know train anymore right
so i literally went through
all the buds my last seal training with
stretch fractures and shin splints and
how i did it was i would take my ankles
all the way up to my calf every morning
so for the first hour the pain was
excruciating but what happened is my
feet would go numb
and i did that every single day for six
months
whoa and that's how i got through my
third heli because i was so broken from
the first two
that the commander said hey the ceo said
this your last time we're sending you
through so that's how i got the idea
to do that so
with the right and people may listen to
this and say this guy is sadistic he's
crazy he's
no if you know how i came up
you realize i was just
a scared kid
that found drive and passion to be
something much better than what he
thought he was and that's why i talk
about the warrior mentality and that's
why so many people are lost when i start
talking
you have
the right
you're lucky
that you don't have to think like
warriors think you're very privileged i
chose this world to be a warrior and i
would choose it again if i came back to
this world
but the mentality of a warrior is very
different than normal mentality
you must be that person on that door oh
get ready to open it thinking to
yourself
if i die
so be it
the only way you can go in that door is
knowing there's a great chance you're
gonna die it's like being a seal you
train with live ammo you jump on an
airplane every ev everything you do
you could die
so to be a warrior why people don't
understand me i'm glad you don't
understand me merry christmas good on
you because being a warrior takes a
whole different mindset
a whole different mindset to know that
there's a great chance i may not beat
him like i was in for 21 years i'm lucky
i'm very lucky that i'm alive able to
talk to you able to still run
but when you sign up on that dialogue to
be a like a seal your mentality changes
i may not live
you gotta accept that
and that's the mentality you have
look at yourself man
look at yourself
and it was that day
in a couple of days after that i just
got real with myself and every day i
came home i called the accountability
mirror what am i going to do today to
change what i see in this mirror
what am i gonna do today and a lot of it
was i stopped sitting with the cool guys
i actually tucked my shirt in went to
school looking like hey man this is how
i'm gonna look if you don't like it so
be it i had to really wear this this
this layer of skin
i had to develop a really callous skin
on me to take whatever you're going to
call me you're going to call me whatever
i'm going to be you know i want a geek
but whoever i am you're going to see me
you're going to see me for who i am
because i need to change who i'm not
and that accountability just became raw
and i became fat over the years i fell
back in a hole i called myself fat
because i was fat and people don't want
to do that
they want to say oh don't call yourself
fat
don't call yourself dumb if you're not
real and wrong with who the [__] you are
nothing's going to change in this nice
new world that we live in we want to
hear
you're just a little big no man you
might be fat
and it's okay to hear that from yourself
and from your belly so that's where it
started at and it's raw it gets ugly
sometimes with me in that mirror
but i'm also proud of myself to be able
to tell myself that and then fix what's
in that mirror that that's what hits me
and that's what i really want people to
hear is that
you can say those things a because
they're true and be because you can fix
them right and your whole life has been
about addressing those things so
walk us through how in the book
do you help people
start addressing it because that's what
i think so powerful about your book so
the first thing about it is once you
realize it and you have to realize it
you got to call yourself out addressing
it is very small it's like it doesn't go
from like one morning um this way next
one i wake up and presto
you know five steps to greatness no
it ain't that brother you read my book
this is hard work it's every day like
right now i had to be honest with you
man
i'm even shaking right now being on this
show i'm a big time introvert
how you address it is you face it
you face it every day you face it every
single day of your life
where you say okay like if you're fat
you need to lose weight
it's patience
it's patience in this fact of accepting
who you are right now i'm fat i don't
like myself
except in fact if you lose three or four
pounds
that's a huge accomplishment
you have to live in your own [__]
world you cannot judge yourself that's
why social media all these things are
horrible you can't judge yourself off of
the so-called competition that we have
made up in our mind
the things that how people look how
people like how smart someone is this is
a race that you run completely alone
and you're all by yourself i had tons of
sticky notes all over my mirror it
wasn't like be better than john or be as
fast as whoever okay david yesterday you
did this
today our next goal for the week is this
so i had a year goal
weekly goals daily goals hourly goals
and the big goals i lied a lot growing
up
i wanted to be accepted
one goal was let's go one day without
lying
let's go one day and then when i would
lie to somebody i would say hey man
now go i had to go back now and
apologize hey man i lied to you you know
hard it is to go back to somebody say i
lied to you
hey man you know what back there i lied
to you dude i was really jacked up so i
figured out these ways of total total
accountability like right now i had to
run this morning before i talk to you
because
why that's what i'm about
i'm about mind mad body fitness
a lot of folks talk so much [__]
about hey i'm going to change your life
i'm going to do someone do that
are you accountable for what you're
doing are you accountable and i mean to
the t
for what you're saying
i am and that's where it started it
started with that total total
accountability of let's not lie today
let's tell people the truth about who
you are and when you can get on and tell
someone like i'm doing right now exactly
how [__] up you are
that's the goal in life
to put your life on a billboard on the
busiest road in the busiest highway in
the world and say
this is how [__] up i used to be
take it or leave it
each thing that is wrong with you has to
be a focal point
you can't look at this gigantic list and
say i gotta change all this [__] my god
this is crazy
no
you take off the first one i want to be
smarter for me that was my thing i have
to i have to become more intelligent
i have such a severe learning disability
i can't retain [__]
i had to now get that one thing
and then strategize in that one problem
how can i do this i'm not gonna learn
like you i'm not gonna learn like
anybody else how am i gonna figure this
out so i then figured out okay where are
my strengths here where my weaknesses in
learning all right man
how am i gonna do this and i figured out
a way to do it
but it's strategizing so how i learn
to this day
if i have a big manual to study
i will have to get a bunch of spiral
notebooks
from the from the daggone store
and each page
i have to write each page out maybe 10
times
so there was a thousand page dive manual
that i got 18 months before i went to
dive school
most people
i'm not smart i'm gonna go see if i can
pass this test i realized hang on a
second i'm not smart
how can i get past this how can i get
through this obstacle i need to get i
need to acquire this book 18 months in
advance because it could take me 18
months to write down
each page over and over again to then
put it to memory so when the question
came up
i had written that question so many
times down in that in on you know on
paper that i can recall okay page 71 was
where i remember seeing this
and i can recall it that way and that's
how i did it so you got to strategize on
each problem you have in life
slowly break down that problem don't
think about all the problems you have
just one at a time
and before you know it you fix all these
problems but you cannot focus on all of
them just on the one thing at a time a
lot of us mediocrity is everywhere right
now and we're all trying to find an easy
way out and we're judging ourselves
let's say there's 10 people in this room
and we're all mediocre
but i'm the best
of the mediocre people
i now think i'm great
i'm great we surround ourselves around
people that make us feel great they tell
us what we want to hear the second we
put ourselves amongst the uncommon
people
we don't like that feeling
that challenge and feeling that of of
that person's breakup at 3 30 in the
morning hey push your [__] on we're
going for a run we don't like that
challenge we like that person who says
hey you know what man i don't feel good
today man and they say oh it's okay
brother we'll take a day off maybe get a
pizza and [__] watch the game we like
that we we love that feeling why because
you understand man we're good bro we
don't want that [__] like this
hey man no bro get your [__] [__] on
man stop being a punk
we don't want that in our lives we don't
want that person who's constantly
challenging our weaknesses
we want that process constantly you know
making us feel nice and good and secure
nurse that's the mediocrity of life
we want to be the best amongst the
average people
people wonder how do you stay
hungry all the time
because after i accomplish something i
don't sit back like a lot of guys who
graduate buds graduate this graduate
that they get comfortable they wonder
why i'm getting weak man i don't know i
lost my edge what's going on because
once you hit the top of the [__]
mountain guess what happened
i'm good
i'm good so you wonder why you're
falling down now because once you top of
the mountain you gotta build a [__]
another one that's mediocrity there's a
lot of people in mediocrity who have a
nice resume
but they're one-timers man they hit they
hit a one-time deal they busted it open
got a lot of money but they're good
you're mediocre now man what are you
[__] doing today tomorrow the next
[__] day that's why i'm listening to
theorists
i don't listen all that [__] i
listen to a [__] who's like this
man
what's wrong man i'm [__] tired dude
why are you tired because tomorrow
i gotta do the [__] [__] again man
whatever the [__] is that made me
[__] nauseous and sick to my stomach
it made me hurt
there's no ending
and that's the person i listen to that's
the person who's gained knowledge you
gain knowledge through suffering
and on the other end of suffering
is a world that very few
very few have ever seen it's a beautiful
world
because that's where you find yourself
you don't find yourself in over here
you find yourself on the other end like
the 100 mile race i was on i ran it for
24 hours i found myself
on the other end of that [__] race
that 19 hours i found wow
there's a whole nother [__] world out
here that never even saw the world is in
your mind
and that's what all that mediocrity is
about mediocrity is contagious
everything i did was for someone else to
like me it wasn't until i started
reading my own book about how pathetic i
was as a human being i can blame my dad
i can blame kids at school i can blame
having health issues a.d my mom not
being around great mom but she was doing
her thing right i could blame a lot of
people
and that's the book i was reading
and i put it off on everybody else it
wasn't until i said you know what for me
to fix this i gotta read what the hell
what the [__] is wrong with david
goggins not not blame anybody
read my books okay i'm afraid of my
shadow
how can i overcome that
go in the military get your ass kicked
do things you hate to do be
uncomfortable every [__] day of your
life roger that
i'm not the smartest kid in the world
okay
he said somebody's saying oh no you're
smart no no don't say that to yourself i
said to myself no i'm a dumb
[__]
okay roger that how you get smarter
educate yourself
so the things that we run from we're
running from the truth
we're running from the truth man so the
only way i became successful
was going towards the truth as painful
and as brutal
as it is
it changed me
it allowed me to become
in my own right
who i am today i hated jumping out of
airplanes
i hated shooting guns
i hated the job as a navy seal
but i did it because i wanted to
change myself
everything i do i'm not really
comfortable doing
but if you choose to go that route to go
be a navy seal
you might as well go be the hardest
[__] in the world
because if you're choosing to do
something you have two routes you can go
there and be a little a little weak
person and get through barely and that's
your reputation
or you can go through
the hardest guy you can possibly be
that's your reputation so my whole thing
is if you're gonna choose to open that
[__] door in iraq or afghanistan open
the [__] and go in hard
because they're gonna remember you
by slowly opening it and peeking in
so if you're gonna open it and you made
the mind open it don't crack it open
open the [__] door go in that's with
life
if you choose
if you're choosing to do something
attack it
because they're gonna remember you
as not attacking it so i want to be
remembered you can hate me there's one
thing you can't say about me
i didn't attack it
and the very best may not be
i'm number one
the very best is did i leave everything
inside of me
out there
so attacking is not like oh i want to
win this or win that or be the best
the best is i'm i'm running against
myself in everything i do
and and that's and that's what i attack
i attack myself
i'm always questioning myself i'm always
holding myself accountable talk to me
about the accountability mirror
so the accountability mirror is
something that i
kind of came up with in high school
like i said i started shaving my head
when i was 16
and i got caught up in trying to impress
so many people because no one liked me
so i developed so many different
identities let me sag my pants
you know let me okay let me pull my
pants up let me let me talk this way or
act this way or be this way or whatever
the hell it may be god dawg so many
different things i did to try to fit in
with so many different groups
that
when you look in the mirror that's the
one person you can't lie to
so every morning i would shave my head
thinking god i reflect back
on some of the lies i may have told
somebody or some of the ways i acted i
didn't feel comfortable doing and i did
it to impress other normal people
the key were there is normal everyday
people i was trying to make other people
like me
how pathetic is that
so i i
that this mirror would always tell me my
like my reflection would say god you are
a pathetic man
how does that feel every day to be this
way
so i would just start having myself
accountable how how did i attack today
how did i attack yesterday
and if i didn't do something i was proud
of i'd write down a sticky note
and i would fix it
so then my senior year in high school
it was a totally different david goggins
can you give an example with something
that you wrote down and fixed all right
there was a lunch table that i you know
i wanted to sit the cool guy lunch table
man i wouldn't i know even everybody's
calling me a [__] all the time i
wanted to to try to act like somebody i
wasn't so i could fit in
and i sold my soul to the devil
you know trying to act like no i'm i'm
david [__] goggins that's who i am
and so i wrote down on a piece of paper
[__] the table
sit by your [__] self
and that's what i did and guess what
happened
my table
became a table people started sitting at
because a whole bunch of people in that
lunchroom
felt exactly like i did
some people have been bullied some
people are just stressed out some people
are insecure some people are fat and
overweight
and the world puts a lot of this [__] in
your mind
it's not just you yeah you help it
and my whole thing is about i had to
develop a mindset
a mindset that was indestructible i had
to armor plate my mind
and it's about what you're saying to
yourself but it also comes at work
so whenever i was getting beat down
physically mentally spiritually whatever
i was going through
just saying you know i would put you
know you can't hurt me can't hurt me
just became a message you know i would
say to myself
and that's just kind of where it comes
from
what i find so interesting is your
concept of the governor that basically
of the chills that an expert is somebody
who's going to tell you
what your limits are rather than the
person that's out there practicing
getting you beyond the limit so what is
the governor and how do we strip it out
of our lives i believe that most human
beings are only living at about 40
percent of their capability
so
the mine has a governor like a car if
you're driving a car and the car has a
governor on it the car may say 130 miles
an hour but the governor set for 91.
once that governor sets in you get to 91
that car starts doing this the car wants
to go the car wants to go but that
[__] factory said uh-uh we're not
going past 91
we have a factory a nice governor in our
brain and it's a survival mechanism it
protects us from pain and suffering the
second we feel that [__] our mind says
oh no this isn't fun
we should back off we should sit down
find something more comfortable and
there's something about the mind the
mind has the tactical advantage over you
at all times
at all times of your life
the mind has a tactical advantage over
you why is that it knows what you're
afraid of it knows your insecurities it
knows your deep dark lies
and it starts to push you away from that
[__] it pushes you in a direction that
is comfortable the mind controls
everything so what i realized was that
when i was growing up and i was 300
pounds and i got all fat and i got all
insecure
i realized that my mind
kept taking me
in this direction when things got
uncomfortable for me when i was facing
my insecurities i was facing my fears my
mind said oh no we have the tactical
advantage we need to get you separate
you from this feeling this feeling over
your life's all about feelings we want
the happy feeling we don't want that
feeling of this sucks
why am i here and you don't have any so
so you can't answer those questions so
you leave
i started realizing that if in that
moment
you can answer those [__] up questions
and you are now in charge of your brain
versus your brain ruling you
that's where all that stuff comes from
so so the 40 rule is all of that you get
to 40
your brain says we're done let's roll
man this is starting to get painful this
is uncomfortable so you sit down
you have to figure out ways and
everybody's different that's how the
book kind of talks about like we all
have these things about you know
five steps to this and four steps to
this it's a lot more than that that's
all [__]
it's it's a practice that you have to
it's a habit
so if you know that at 40 i'm still you
know i'm feeling pain at 40 i'm feeling
pain that's where the 40 rule kicks in
now it starts okay i'm feeling pain my
mind's saying all this [__] to me it's
saying get out of here run flee the
fight or flight kicks in okay we're done
we're not good enough it starts telling
you all these things you start to
believe it
because the mind controls all
this is the time where you have to gain
control back of your mind
it's okay let me see if i can go 45
and once you start giving yourself more
and more hope and start realizing okay
the mind starts to be okay what are you
doing we're supposed to be going right
and you're going left
you start then controlling your mind
start finding more in you know in
yourself and it goes from 40 to a lot
further than that but that's the start
of it though get to get to the spot
where your mind is saying stop
wherever that is
get there first and then that's when
that [__] starts to work for you you got
to control yourself in that moment
that's that's my happiness is is my
reflection on
the suffering of my journey knowing i
never quit nor
was i guided
by anybody on this earth
i was guided by something much more
powerful
and i listened
and i chose the path of most resistance
talent
not required
i love that you've said that you lived
the life of a monk
what is what does that mean what does
that look like why do you do that um so
i stretch out every day for these two
hours
i don't drink i don't go out
my regimen is i wake up have oatmeal run
come back hit the weights
um i'm a big sports guy i don't leave
the house
if at all but do stuff like this
and i stress that at nighttime
i find
people that i trust which is a very
small group of people people who are
honest and true to me
people who will die for me and i'll die
for them which is a [__] small sure
and everybody else man you know do you
and i stay to myself
and i let you do you i don't judge
people i don't criticize you you want to
be a douche bag and be an ass and not
love this country do you ever want to do
i don't care man
i fought for this country for you to do
you
and i am all about you doing you because
i'm gonna [__] do me
and i'm gonna do me until i'm [__]
dead
and i believe i i earned the right
a lot of people haven't earned the right
just because you live in this country i
mean you earn the right
you gotta you gotta live a little bit
live
and then have something to say
or
shut the [__] up i'm okay with going on
this easy highway over here the easy
highway has all these [__] signs and
[__] directions how to get somewhere
and you have to first be uncomfortable
with how you feel about yourself with
that voice that a lot of us like to run
away from we all have it we all have
that voice to say hey man you know
you're you're kind of wimping out right
now you're kind of being a little punk
right now but a lot of us say okay
that's okay
it's okay to tell these little white
lies to ourselves so we first have to
face the real you
the real me is david goggins the real me
is a guy looking at you right now saying
i don't want to [__] be on this show
right now because i used to stutter as a
kid and i'm afraid of that i'm afraid
that here in a second i'm going to start
[__] stammering and stuttering the
whole world is going to know that have
all these issues
but that's when i see right now okay
goggins you gotta go on this [__]
show
that's goggins
goggins is saying okay david goggins
you're a punk
life made you this way we can't live
like this we can't live in fear we can't
live in judgment
we can't be afraid of what the [__]
people right now are looking at me
saying about me we cannot be afraid of
that
that's goggins
god is saying [__] all of you who don't
like me who don't want to and that
person then comes in
but you have to be david goggins to say
man i'm afraid of this i'm [__] up
here
life made me this way here
i stutter i i have these issues with
with reading and writing and and i'm i'm
fat and i'm insecure
you have to face that in that dark room
in that dark room is who you are
but in that dark room is where you have
to create
another human being that walks out of
that dark room
to face who you are
that's the only way you're going to get
over
all those things you have to create
someone else not like you have two
different personalities it is you
but you have to find strength and that
visualization of almost me
cracking out goggins like almost like
that superman cape like i'm coming out a
different person a person that doesn't
give a [__] about anything who doesn't
care about being judged who knows i'm
weak who knows i'm afraid who says
whatever you think about me take it
whatever i'm here
that's guidance
in the dark room you face yourself you
realize you want to be better you
realize you don't want to be this weak
insecure person in the world he has all
these problems that we all have
we all have social media is a great
platform to tell you who we want to be
not who we are
i'm deep in the cookie jar the cookie
jar
is something that i've made up
of all the
failures of my life all the things that
i was i failed and i went back i failed
and i went back and i finally succeeded
all the things that kicked my ass i put
them on the cookie jar because at times
of hell
even the hardest men in times of
suffering what we do is we forget how
hard we really are
because that's what suffering is
suffering is a test it's all it is
suffering is the true test of life
and so that cookie jar travels in my
brain so whenever i get put in a
situation where i have poopy pants the
woe is me mentality of oh my god
life sucks
i take a second i take the one second
decision i step out of my life for one
second go in the cookie jar pull up oh
[__] you went you were in three
hell weeks and finished two one of those
whole weeks a guy died and because it
was so bad
oh you are [__] badass
you are i put it back in the cookie jar
and i remember who the [__] i really am
i'm not the kid that got that that was
called i'm not the scared kid this is
who i am
it's a reminder of who you truly are at
the core of yourself
but what i was saying to myself the
whole time on that track
and it and this is what i say to myself
self-talk
and visualization are the two keys to my
success
i believed
for that last time 19 miles
i was indestructible because i took
myself in that chair
crapping up my back peeing blood on my
leg shin splint stretch fractures
i use all that for motivation versus
negativity i use it for motivation i i
said to myself who on this [__] earth
would still be going right now
you are
you gotta be the hardest [__] on
the planet is it true i don't give a
[__]
at that time right
it got me to the finish line of that
[__] race
i believed it i believe it today
i believed it enough to where my body
said
he's not going to stop
and that's
i took all the negative things
i need to go to the hospital this and
that
and i use uh who the hell could even get
on that chair you did
who the hell would even think about
taping stress fractures up you did
all those things i used for motivation
when you really sit back at your life
and you are in that dark room
and you're looking at where you started
from
and you tell yourself god dawg man my
mom is this way my
stepdad got murdered my dad beat the
[__] out of me
i can't read and write to say my [__]
soul i've lied about it to everybody
i've cheated on all these tests
my god man
and then you put a goal
in your mind
how are you gonna feel man when you
accomplish this goal coming from that
[__]
coming from the [__] hell you came
from
a lot of people start from a good
starting point they have a good
foundation what if you can surpass all
these [__]
we have everybody who was [__] way up
here started up here and you had you
started with no legs you had to grow
[__] legs to even start walking and
then crawling and then running and then
you start passing people and all that's
given to them
i had to use all this negative [__] that
was making me weak and horrible as a
person
i had to use this as the power that now
fueled me had to flip it on his head and
say hold up
this might be exactly what i need
the darkness
is exactly what i need it's how you look
at your situation and i was looking at
it all [__] up having lived the life
i've lived
and
seeing the other side not being afraid
to attack
what was in front of me has made me
happy say that again
in fact let me make sure i understood it
getting to the point where you're not
afraid to face the thing on the other
side of the door that wants to attack
you has made you happy right
right it's really powerful i hope people
heard that right that made me very happy
so
basically i just don't walk around with
a dad going to smile my face all day in
time so you know merry christmas
but um but basically what the dark side
is
we all have
a cookie jar and we all have a jar of
[__]
that's its official name it's a jar of
[__] man where [__] just
it just ain't going right
and in hell week what they do in hell
week because this is where i really went
to the dark side
what they do in hell week is they
design hell week
to find your flaws
and they do a really good job of that
it's 130 hours of continuous training
you may get two hours of sleep
and they beat the [__] out of you and
find everything
wrong with your mentality
and then
they start hell week
and that's the beauty of it
and
for me
i'm not some not you know naturally
god-given guy you know i don't have a
great bit of talent in anything
so what got me through horrible times
was the dark side
was i created my name is david goggins
i created goggins
goggins is the guy
that can take anything you put in front
of them you want to break my
[__] legs
so be it
i have a way of going to a place like i
did in that race where all the pain and
suffering that they put on top of me in
hell week
i will reverse that pain and suffering
and i will take your soul
so every instructor that put me through
budge my job what drove me
was i wanted you to go home that night
after you beat the living [__] out of me
and i smiled in your face
i wanted you to feel worse than i did
and you were going home to a nice warm
bed
with your wife or your kids in a nice
meal and i was still out there in the
grip
suffering for another 100 hours
i wanted you to think about me
knowing that i'm comfortable
being very unfucking comfortable and i
want you to think about when you went
through [__] hell week
how uncomfortable you were and how bad
you wanted to quit
knowing i'm not thinking that [__]
way
so the dark side is something that i've
designed
it's the evil place i can go that
very few things
can hurt me
i use the hurt you're trying to put on
me
i flip it upside down and use it you try
to use it for kryptonite
no it's power pillars for me i'm using
it for strength i just flipped negative
into positive so it is what do people
come up to you and ask you the most
how do i do it
how am i able to do what i do on a daily
basis
you know how do i fight the demons
because they hear me speak and i'm very
raw and real
how do you
fight my insecurities all these things
and uh
they're there every day
the day every day like you said i'm
in a search for a feeling
i'm not in the search for a trophy i'm
not in search for love not so much for
more followers on instagram or social
media
when i started this journey years ago
and i realized that i'm going to be
somebody and i'm searching for a feeling
a feeling of true victory for myself and
only myself the second i shut out the
whole world
and realize that one thing that i am in
this world alone
i'm fighting in this race by myself
yeah i'm all about people i'm all about
team i'm all about that [__]
but i'm really all about right now and
in my life
just like you said no one knows
the real truth about me how hard i
really go
i don't care if anybody knows
i don't want anybody to know
i'm an introvert i live an introverted
life and i love that about me it
that right there is my fuel
is i know that there's really no one out
there grinding like me and if they are
so be it
if i know about you i'll make sure that
up my gang
that's what the mentality is all about
my whole thing is a mentality thing like
i told you the last time i was on the
show i viewed myself as the weakest
person on the planet earth
my goal in life
was to
in my mind believe i'm the hardest man
alive
and that's why the whole thing is can't
hurt me
that's what it's about it's about
whatever you think you are you have to
make that dream a reality but that's
where
the hard part is
is making that dream reality that's
where the hard work comes that's where
people know how do you keep grinding
every day
you have to make those insecurities
those fears like when i was 300 pounds i
didn't have any drive i'm going to be a
navy seal what kind of stupid [__] is
that 300 pounds
there wasn't like a drive to go be a
navy seal i was an insecure lying kid
afraid
i had to
look in my insecurities
and in my fear and find drive in that
we're all looking for passion
passions all around you
you have a whole sh a whole [__]
stack of it all around you it's your
insecurities all that [__] you gotta
dive deep in that [__] all this it's all
in there
all the energy and fuel you need is
right in yourself
it's all there
you got a lot of stuff to do to overcome
and you know that's where i found it i
found it right there among insecurities
i found drive in my own insecurities
and that's that's the most powerful
thing in the world when you can find
drive in your own doubt
fear
insecurities
you become very unstoppable
you may have just changed me at a deep
and fundamental level i've never thought
about it like that so the number one
question i get asked is how do i find my
passion to which the answer is
very rudimentary and maybe ultimately
not as true and powerful as what you
just said
which is
there's another thing i need to tie this
to that you talk about in the book which
is people have lost touch with their
bodies
and you always tell people if you want
to change go do something physically
[__] demanding like go find yourself
in the suffering and in the pain of
doing something with your body yes
it is utterly fascinating to me and it's
just hitting me now i'd never heard you
say that before so i i'll reserve final
judgment for round three when we come
back together but
the thought of you feel lost you feel
insecure you don't have a passion you
don't know what to do you're reaching
out to somebody you need that help you
know you could do more be more and the
answer is you in the last interview we
did you called it the bag of [__] if i
remember right yes you reach in to the
bag of [__] and start
changing those one by one
that may be the most extraordinary piece
of advice i've ever heard in fact i will
say the way it's hitting me right now
that's the single most extraordinary
piece of advice for self-transformation
i've ever heard
it's the truth
who is sitting here right now today
this is the real me obviously
but um
i'm gonna go kind of
i'm a very
philosophical person and i'm gonna go
there with you real quick
i believe in a higher power don't know
the name don't know where it's coming
from don't anything like that but i
believe that
this power
and visualizing real quick
let's say it's a man up there or a woman
whatever and they have a chart
and when you're born
they say david goggins
born february 17 1975 at 6 00 am
they write the chart down because they
can see everything they know exactly
what you're so [__] supposed to be
they know what you're supposed to be
you die you go to so-called heaven
you arrive at heaven i'm 300 pounds
i retired as an eco-lab guy which is
okay just a job whatever i go up there
and god
looks at me and he shows me my chart
and my chart on there says you were
supposed to be a navy seal
you're supposed to weigh 185 pounds
you're supposed to be one of the
smartest people on the planet this this
all this you see this
and now you're in heaven you made it to
heaven but you're like god i was
supposed to live that life
i was supposed to live that life and
then you find out that the reason why
because we all think that if we pray on
it if we do this if we do that whatever
if we don't work we just whatever it
could magically happen for us
no
i believe that when i'm all said and
done with my whole job is to outwork the
chart
whatever the [__] chart says about me
the all-knowing power up there i want to
get up there and say him look at me and
say
i know everything
i didn't [__] see this
i didn't [__] see this i want to feel
that i want to get to the other end of
this [__] world
and however i'm being judged
whoever's judging me to look at me and
say i did not
[__] know i had you at 185 how'd you
get this but all this other [__] i was
riding as you were living it
i want to
i want to find more
all i can
and in that [__] sack of [__]
you have to dive in that
to find more
because if you're not willing to go in
there and face yourself
you're not gonna find anything
you're gonna live right here on surface
man right here on surface
so there is an ending to this world and
there is somewhere to go and there's a
judgment
you're going to get there and you might
see a chart
and that chart may tell you who the [__]
you should have been
and now you get to rest your life to
think about that man i could have lived
a much better life if i just
would have just suffered a little bit
more if i just would have went in that
[__] and realized i had so much more but
fear in the 40 and living here versus
living here
being afraid
stop me
so that's i i'm a big guy in visualizing
i'm a big guy in making a world it may
not exist
to me it does
and
i'm overpowering myself every day
and you gotta find tools to do that
that's the tool that i use
the most important
conversation
you will ever have in your [__] life
is the one you have with yourself
you wake up with it
you walk around with it you go to bed
with it eventually you're going to act
on it whether you're good or bad
you have to that's why the whole thing
about this book i have it's about you
it is about you it's strictly about you
finding who you are so many people die
live 100 years never [__] know who
they are
never know who they are you have to look
in that mirror and know this there's so
much more in here man
because i can literally right now be a
300 pound guy spraying for cockroaches
still to this day if i did not look in
that mirror and say there has to be more
to this
this can't be it
is something where people um
it's a it's a comfortable world
a lot of us say you know like for
instance i see these athletes right now
who retire you know i'm 38 you know i'm
39 i did 20 years at the top of my game
and i'm chilling out now you see him a
year later and how they look
what the hell just happened to you dude
what the hell you're one of the greatest
athletes of all time
kids looked up to you women men of all
ages looked up to you
and they hit the pinnacle where it's
time to retire and their mind says
i'm civilized the worst thing that could
ever happen to any human being
is they become civilized it's that total
accountability like even when you retire
there's a [__] looking at me and
judging me right now man
i'm i was the baddest person to ever
live
it doesn't go away man
you gotta wake up even though you
retired you're never retired
you're setting the example every single
day of your life
and being civilized feels so good i'm
sorry man
once you get to the top
you may retire but you ain't never
coming back home man because now you're
judged
people see you falling off
you want to be that guy who knows i may
be retired
from the sport or forever i did
but i'd be damned
if you ever see me looking like [__]
feeling like [__] not arriving people
i've arrived
i've arrived mentality you're always
setting the example civilization feels
so good
these comfortable feelings
are what people want they want
retirement
they want that they need that they it's
a it's a yearning feeling
i want it too
people love putting a label on me about
my god man you're just wired different
not [__] wired different dude
i'm thinking right now after i got past
my stuttering thing now i'm on a roll
i'm good now you know what i'm thinking
about right now i gotta [__] wake up
tomorrow and do the same [__] again i
gotta leave this [__] interview and
go stretch out for two and a half hours
i hate that [__]
how do you find and cultivate that drive
like there is a kid right now watching
this man and they feel like you felt
they feel
lost alone broken stupid lazy
like they're never going to amount to
anything and what you're talking about
is the closest thing to a [__]
superpower that this kid has ever heard
and right now he is on the edge of his
seat how does he
how does he like force himself to take
that first step
i'm very fortunate that i grew up at a
time when there was no phones
and there was no social media
and i suggest yes i'm on social media on
a very limited basis because i have a
story to tell
and it's a great platform use it as a
platform don't use it as your life
my biggest advice to give everybody in
the world
is like i say we live in an external
world
everything is is you got to see it touch
it it's external
if you can for
the rest of your life live inside of
yourself
stop listening to people who are calling
you fat gay transsexual [__]
everything that is makes no sense all
these insecure people putting their
insecurities on you you got to flush it
out
you got to just be whoever the hell god
or whatever the hell you believe in if
you believe in nothing but yourself i
don't care what it is
you got to take everything and throw it
away
you have to believe in one thing and
that is yourself
and and i'm not saying don't believe in
god or what you believe in but right now
for you to find
greatness in yourself
you're not going to find it by looking
in a book
or by even hearing me i may give you the
spark
but you've got to go inside yourself to
find it and that means you got to be
quiet
shut the [__] up go in a room stop
talking search
your soul search your mind search your
abilities
and you'll find it
but if you're not looking for it
you won't find it
so you got to go start your journey and
the journey starts with you finding why
the hell am i here on this planet earth
why am i here
and if you don't know that you will live
the rest of your life searching always
asking the question why
if you don't know who you are
if you don't know who you are i can't
tell you who you are what's the next
phase of your life look like i i you
can't imagine how intrigued i am to
watch you over the next five to ten
years
well
honestly i've
i'm blessed enough to have survived the
life i lived
and to come out the other side with a
bunch of knowledge so hopefully
i can help people
that believe that they're
much less than what they truly are
help them find greatness in themselves
and greatness
isn't running 200 miles at a time or
doing 4 000 pull-ups or being a seal
greatness is whatever the hell
you dreamed of in your own mind you got
to first see it you got to first create
this vision in your mind
and then that's when i come into play
once you create this vision in your mind
it's how am i going to get there now
and that's when i come into play but
first you got to create your own vision
and it's not external
it's the the vision created is inside of
you most of this generation quits the
second they get
talked to
you did this wrong you did this wrong or
or they get yelled at it's so easy to
you know to be great nowadays because
everybody else is most people are weak
this this is a softened generation so if
you have any mental toughness
any any ability if you have any fraction
of self-discipline
the ability to
not want to do it but still do it people
have a hard thing to understand i hate
to run and and what makes me so crazy
it doesn't need more is people well why
do you run if you hate it what are you
talking about
i don't want to take showers and eat
either i hate that too
the whole that's a life man
that and and
it wasn't until i changed that mentality
that i became somebody
i hated going to school so guess what i
was dumb as [__]
that's what
one plus one is two
but if you can get through
to doing things that you hate to do
on the other side is greatness
that's what people understand
by me running i am callous in my mind
i'm not training for a race
i'm training for life
i'm training for the time when i get
that two o'clock in the morning call
that my mom is dead or something happens
tragic in life
i don't fall apart
i'm training my mind and my body my
spirit so it's all one so i can handle
what life is gonna throw at me because
the life i've lived
it throws a whole bunch at you
and if you're not physically immensely
prepared for that
you're just gonna crumble and you're
good for nobody you said i can be me
the second you said i can cuss and be me
and cussing people i said man you cost
all the [__] time why
well
i hate to say it the best way for me to
get how i feel across
i can't sit here and say you know what
yeah i went through hell weekend man it
was it was really hard
no that [__]
takes your damn soul rips it inside out
and then they say
now we're going to [__] start
it it allows me to express
where i was at at a point of my life
if i don't give you all of me why the
hell am i here why how will you learn
from me
people take so much offense to me
you will never learn from people if we
always tap dance around the truth oh god
i love that we tap dance around the
truth by
finding the right word so i don't hurt
you because you have thin skin
no
tighten up people it's okay trust me
it's okay you might be called [__] one
day
it's okay
you might be called some jewish word or
some [__] or gay word it's okay
let them call you that what are you
going to do now they don't own your life
how are you going to control that now
how are you going to flip it upside down
and say roger that
now i'm going to harness this [__] and
you'll read about me years from now
how that's the question how are you
gonna do that
thicken your skin
become more of a human being don't be
afraid of the reflection in the mirror
because that's all you can be afraid of
once you overcome the reflection in the
mirror
you've done it so the image in my mind
of a man
was not one that had
earrings sagged his pants i i had this
image in my head
and i was going to fulfill that
and i i didn't do any trends
i stopped trending i stopped being this
guy who whatever was new
[__] it that's not what i believe in i'm
doing this this is what i want to be
this is what i'm going to be
so
it's incredible
um
how do you
experience
beauty and joy in your life what
situations do you put yourself in what
makes you laugh what uh what's the fun
stuff for you
it's funny you say that um i i just
retired from the military in november
and i was going and going and going and
going
and i never really
i was a
a happy guy
but
i'm never in the moment of like sitting
back and
i want to travel here to have fun or do
this or that i've never been that person
but the first time i really got a chance
to experience true happiness and true
peace
was i was
like so what i did to myself to become
who i am today it takes a great toll on
your body
so i believe god gave me time to rest
and he took me out of commission
not even the mind of goggins or could
get me back up so i had about a good six
seven months where i was out
and when i was out i had time to reflect
on all that accomplished
and that was the first time in my life
where i sat back and said wow
because only i i may be telling you some
of the story i know the exact truth
of how brutal my life was and how
i shouldn't be on this show today
and how the mind
and how beautiful it is
so
what brings me joy and happiness
is knowing how beautiful the mind is
and i'm one of the few people
that didn't read about it
didn't experience it through some some
drug
i got to experience the beauty of true
[__] willpower
true
[__] you i'm gonna fail i'm gonna
[__] fail i'm gonna [__] fail i'm
gonna [__] fail
and i will succeed
just me talking about that gives me a
feeling i know what i did
and i don't need to travel somewhere or
to have this or have that
i have it all here in my mind
the beauty is remembering this young
dumb what people called [__]
is now where i'm at today
and that is when you finally get to that
point for me
it's forever lasting peace
i do need i could die right now on this
show and i'll be happy ma'am
we're all we are all great
no matter if
if you think you're dumb no maybe think
you're fat no matter if you are fat no
matter if you've been bullied or no
matter if you just got back from iraq or
afghanistan
and you have no legs or your arms or
whatever man we all have greatness
it just you got to find the courage
you got to find the courage to put your
bose headphones on
and silence the noise out of this world
and to find it and to find it because
it's out there but it's gonna take
hard work courage
self-discipline it's gonna take all the
non-cognitive skills
the all the non-cognitive skills to be
great
you know smart is good all this stuff is
good that's all cognitive
it's the non-cognitive skills
that sets you apart from everybody else
and
and that's what it's all about
i had a moment in front of all these
great american heroes
where i had a chance it was like so fast
it went through me like like lightning
of i can't believe
i'm here
i can't believe i'm getting an award
like this
that
that kid who was in the fetal position
the majority of his life
and so much the fact that my body and my
hip flexors are tight to this day
that even though i was standing erect
my mind was in the fetal position
and when i looked out amongst all those
people
it was a sense of pride
that i can't even
i can't even explain it's the moments of
three hell weeks it's the moments of
in that room by myself studying
for hours and hours and i was trying to
catch up with all the kids who are above
me
it's just those moments
like the real raw moments of life
that was like boom hit me
and we're gone but i was like i did that
i overcame that [__] you know it's like
this is power behind all that [__] and
that's the feeling
i was looking for in my life i found it
wasn't money it wasn't fame it wasn't
awards
it was that feeling i have right now
to feel i'm about to break down
but it's not of like oh my god i'm upset
it's like i worked
myself
so hard
that i turned a person this [__] up
into this [__] right here not
off of reading a [__] book off a
theorist
off of going to work on myself and
saying i don't know how to do this
but i know that to get over there that
[__] side
i gotta grind myself into a [__] fine
powder
and i did it
i did it all for sure will and
very few people will know how that feels
very few
i want you to realize that this world
life
is one big head game
and once you learn to play the
[__] head game
it's no longer a game anymore at all
you can start living your life
david thank you so much
[Applause]
buy this book
i read it it is extraordinary it is one
of the most amazing
manuals for how to change your life ever
and
just this interview i think could be
transformative for some people and the
book goes into so much more detail and
really reaches into you and shows you
how to do it in your own life he helps
you find that 3.14 for you so that you
can go out and do the things that you
need to do but the things that i hope
that you take away from him
be honest with yourself be raw but
understand that you can fix it stop
tolerating mediocrity you have to detest
mediocrity in your life and you have to
understand
the only way you're going to meet
yourself
is through pain and suffering and if you
can become a master
of suffering the things that you can do
with your life are truly unlimited you
can truly break free of all of the
limiting beliefs that you've put on
yourself your circumstances put on you
your family has put on you experts have
put on you whoever it is
you can get rid of all of that and
completely blow your own mind with what
you're capable of
and one day
you will have a shirt that instead of
saying what would goggins do
you'll be asking what would i do because
you're the right person to ask
and when you get to that point
nothing will ever be the same get the
book all right guys if you haven't
already be sure to subscribe and until
next time my friends be legendary take
care
david
[__]
hey everybody thank you so much for
watching and being a part of this
community if you haven't already be sure
to subscribe you're going to get weekly
videos on building a growth mindset
cultivating grit and unlocking your full
potential